Project Title
Financial Market News Sentiment Analysis

Project Overview
This project analyzes sentiment from financial news articles and examines how it correlates with stock price movements. Using NLP and sentiment analysis techniques, it classifies news articles as positive, neutral, or negative.
The project could be useful for investors to understand the sentiment of the financial news, helping them make informed decisions.

Repository Structure

Financial-Market-News-Sentiment-Analysis/
│
├── data/
│   ├── raw_news_data.csv         # Raw news data (titles, body, timestamps, etc.)
│   ├── stock_prices.csv          # Stock prices data for correlation analysis
│
├── notebooks/
│   ├── data_preprocessing.ipynb  # Preprocessing and cleaning steps
│   ├── sentiment_analysis.ipynb  # Sentiment analysis using NLP techniques
│   ├── correlation_analysis.ipynb # Correlation between sentiment and stock prices
│
├── src/
│   ├── data_loading.py           # Load and preprocess data
│   ├── sentiment_model.py        # Train sentiment model
│   ├── correlation.py            # Correlation analysis script
│
├── models/
│   ├── sentiment_model.pkl       # Trained sentiment analysis model
│
├── requirements.txt              # Project dependencies
├── README.md                     # Project overview and setup instructions
├── LICENSE                       # License for the repository
└── .gitignore                    # Files/folders to ignore in version control
Setup Instructions
1. Clone the Repository:
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/Financial-Market-News-Sentiment-Analysis.git
cd Financial-Market-News-Sentiment-Analysis
2. Install Dependencies: Install necessary libraries by running:
pip install -r requirements.txt
3. Data Requirements:
raw_news_data.csv: Financial news data (e.g., news headlines, content, timestamps).
stock_prices.csv: Stock price data with columns like date, open, close, etc.
4. Run Notebooks: Start with the notebooks in the notebooks folder for step-by-step processes.

Step-by-Step Guide

1. Data Collection
Financial News Data: Scrape financial news data using APIs like News API, or web scraping techniques (if allowed by the site’s terms of service).
Stock Price Data: Download stock price data from reliable sources like Yahoo Finance or Alpha Vantage.
2. Data Preprocessing
Cleaning: Remove irrelevant information, null values, and unnecessary columns.
Tokenization: Split text into individual tokens (words) for NLP processing.
Stop Words Removal: Remove common words like "the", "is", "and" that don’t add much value.
Lemmatization/Stemming: Convert words to their base forms to reduce redundancy.
3. Sentiment Analysis Model
Use pre-trained models or libraries like VADER (Valence Aware Dictionary and Sentiment Reasoner) or TextBlob for sentiment analysis.
Alternatively, use transformer-based models like BERT or FinBERT for financial news data.
Save the trained model as sentiment_model.pkl in the models folder.
4. Analyzing Sentiment Impact on Stock Prices
Time-Series Matching: Match the timestamp of each news article to the closest stock price data.
Correlation Analysis: Calculate correlation coefficients between daily average sentiment scores and stock price changes (percentage change).
Visualization: Use libraries like matplotlib and seaborn to plot the relationship between sentiment and stock prices.
5. Model Evaluation
Sentiment Accuracy: Measure model accuracy on labeled test data.
Stock Correlation: Use Pearson or Spearman correlation to see how well sentiment scores predict stock price changes.
6. Documentation
README.md: Include a detailed overview, setup instructions, and project objectives.
Requirements.txt: List dependencies like pandas, scikit-learn, transformers, matplotlib, etc.
Notebooks: Provide well-documented Jupyter notebooks for each stage of the analysis.
